Did you know, that the majority of the budget was spent on music
and despite the show being about life in Michigan it was shot in California?
Hi, its Alex and are watching HOW THEY CHANGED.
It's been more than a decade since NBC's Freaks and Geeks graced the small screen, but it certainly doesn't feel like it.
but it certainly doesn't feel like it.
The series ran for 18 episodes, but the finale wasn't shot last.
"We shot the finale halfway through the season," - Jason Segel shared.
Creator Paul Feig noted that Freaks and Geeks, which featured a young cast - some of whom hadn't gone through puberty yet -
was NBC's lowest-rated show when it aired. It drew 7 million viewers, Feig said,
and a hit today pulls in 8 million.
Cast member John Francis Daley, was 13 years old when he filmed Freaks and Geeks and appropriately, he experienced his first onscreen kiss.
"First onscreen erection too, but no one talks about that," Daley commented.
Busy Philipps had her first onscreen kiss with Franco too.
The show spent a large portion of its budget for the rights on music from the The Who, Van Halen, Rush, Styx, The Grateful Dead, The Moody Blues, and Billy Joel,
and when it came to re-airing the show on Fox Family, that network substituted cheaper songs.
However, Feig and Apatow waited until they found a distributor (Shout! Factory)
willing to pony up for the rights to the original songs before they’d release it on DVD.
Freaks and Geeks essentially kept several of the cast members out of college.
Jason Segel decided not to go to college to act on Freaks and Geeks;
Seth Rogen dropped out of high school (although, he lied and said he was doing correspondance school, when in fact he was writing Superbad);
and Busy Phillips and Linda Cardellini both dropped out of college.
In attempt at keeping the show “real” Apatow and Feig sat down Linda Cardellini and Busy Phillips for an awkward conversation about body image and their characters;
both suggesting that neither actor lose any weight like many TV actresses do, because they wanted the pair to look like real high school kids.
Fun fact: Linda and Busy share a birthday, June 25th (only Linda was born in 1975 and Busy in 1979).
If you watch the theme song closely,
you’ll notice that Jason Segel was in the background of Seth Rogen’s shot rubbing his eyes.
He was doing so to give the impression that he looked high.
As a favor to Judd Apatow, Ben Stiller agreed to appear in the 17th episode in an attempt to help Freaks and Geeks avoid cancellation.
By the time the episode aired, the show had already been axed.
James Franco and Busy Phillips, despite being a couple on the show, reportedly disliked each other in real life.
Part of that tension apparently stemmed from a scene in which Franco — who had developed a his own backstory about coming from an abused family,
without telling Busy Phillips — pushed Busy to the ground as part of his “method” acting.
Not expecting to be pushed, it knocked the wind out of Phillips, and she ran to her trailer crying.
Franco apparently had a habit of improvising on set,
and sometimes, not to great effect (such as improvising a scene in which he threw milk in a character’s face).
Fans of Freaks and Geeks know that the show takes place in a fictional suburb of Detroit - Chippewa, Michigan.
The show wasn’t filmed anywhere near its implied setting.
It was filmed in sunny California.
The camera crew used grey and green tinted lights to achieve the natural coloring in a Midwestern area,
and they tried to avoid shooting outside whenever they could.
The pilot of the show was filmed in a real school,
however when the show was picked up by the network they built sets to match the original pilot school,
filming the rest of the season on the school sets.
The primary school set was simply just one “T” section of a hallway,
which was constantly changed, altered and redressed to make it feel like different sections of the school.
The extras walking down the hall would need to wait at the end of the hallway quietly
each time they walked by the camera since there was nowhere for them to go that wouldn’t cross the camera’s path.
That’s all for this time, friends!
Don`t forget to leave a like and subscribe!
Have a great time and take care!